hello you four players asso HD here with
a brand new video for you here today in
this video we will explore some of the
worst for mobile nations you can find
and create in the game with ideas
mechanics and positions so bad your
disappointment is sure to be
immeasurable whether you're in the
market to handicap yourself or if you're
craving mediocrity and budget
alternatives to your favorite Nations
you've came to the right place let's get
started with number 10 good eye mites
and welcome to the world's largest
open-air prison stria at number 10 on
our list the land down under is
underpowered in every conceivable way
and it doesn't help that this nation is
isolated and completely lacking in
expansion opportunities unlike more
historically relevant to post-colonial
States
Prison Island is stuck with generic and
boring colonial national ideas that
grant this maritime state minimally
relevant modifiers to make matters worse
Australia suffers from no unique events
no unique missions and they're located
and objectively the poorest trade node
in the entire game Oceania
since Australia can only be formed and
released by a colonial nation that
colonizes five territories in their
region this fire nation can only be
played for one or two hundred years at
best for Europeans though Southeast
Asian empires can form it a bit faster
Oceania is one of the last regions in EU
for that remains entirely empty of
indigenous states and could present an
interesting opportunity for developers
to create Aboriginal tribes and the
Dreamtime religion though as it stands
remains a desolate and undesirable land
in game a rising from the ashes of Rome
and Republican democracy is the puny
Philistine state of Greece at number 9
on our list of worst from all nations
many players know the struggle a
Byzantium campaign in the face of the
Ottoman Turks but few know of their a
castrated budget b-list cousin this is
because Greece is not formable as
Byzantium but is instead from a bull as
any other Greek culture nation few of
which exist in 1444 Corfu and nack so so
the only valid Greek tags at campaign
start but are both vassal subjects to
the scheming seaman of Venice other
possibilities include Athens which
starts as a Latin culture
state requiring a cultural change and
Venice itself which also requires a
culture change and some casual Hellenic
conquest the real question is why you
would want to form this nation in the
first place as budget byzantium requires
ten admin tech deform possesses no
unique missions has inferior national
ideas to vis an tiem offers no unique
events and is harder to form than just
retaking Europe and Anatolia as the
eastern Roman Empire if you do decide to
form the most indebted European nation
though you'll be able to unlock the it's
Greek to me achievement provided you
conquer the far-flung and geographically
distant provinces of Zetas Dada Lamba
and ro sucking up to furans hands
spreading the revolution of mediocrity
as Westphalia of next at number eight on
our list of failed former bowls if you
opted to create this nation by scratch
and not go the historical client state
of Napoleon route you're in for a bit of
a headache for starters forming
Westphalia requires our capital to be in
the Westphalian region but you are only
able to form it as an elector or a
nation that is not belonged to the Holy
Roman Empire this effectively forces you
to play as Cologne in Fortune 44 a
god-awful state on account of its
theocratic government form assuming
you're looking for the path of least
resistance requiring an adman tech level
of 10 Westphalia possesses no unique
national ideas removes all events
related to your original country
smothers your nation in piss yellow and
offers no new missions outside of the
generic HRE region ones available to
more superior states but hey you do get
access to one free base tax in your
capital and claims over provinces you
probably already control this
disgraceful French rump state doesn't
offer players achievements either so
you'd be better off forming Hanover
Prussia or remaining as your HRE prince
of choice do you dream of playing
generic nations that offer you literally
nothing if so you're assured a mildly
enjoy Sean of Southeast Asia at number 7
on our list formable as in e shan
cultured nation the obscure culture
north of Burmese and tie in the somya
highlands the nation of shan is
decidedly substandard in a previous top
ten video entitled the most
nations of EU four it was said that Shan
is a fantastic pick in the region given
that you were able to switch to them as
nations like me who couldn't normally
form other nations like the Mughals an
effect Shan served as an intermediary
for players interested in conducting
alchemical experiments like the mingles
and the Mongols and present-day EU for
though this is no longer possible with
the addition of endgame tags making Shan
a decidedly worthless placeholder nation
much like the predecessors on this list
they offer no unique national ideas
missions or events and suffer from a
tough position at the crossroads of
India Thailand and the Ming Dynasty but
they do offer you 20 prestige on
formation if you're looking for fun
former bulls in the proverbial sea of
this region I'd strongly suggest forming
Malaya instead there is even a guide on
this channel on how to form pirate
Malaya and if you're so inclined I will
leave a card at the top right of your
screen it is said that Deutschland uber
always that Germany is above everything
on this list
Germany is indeed above most though for
quite the wrong reasons
players new to the game often flock to
form this Central European powerhouse as
fast as possible but I implore you to
reconsider for starters Germany is very
difficult to form requiring the player
to own an Corps 15 cities spread widely
across the voter land ranging from
Danzig in the East to coltan in the West
to make matters worse it's only possible
to form them at tech level 20
necessitating hundreds of years of
investment and hundreds of points of
aggressive expansion in the already
crowded HRE
simply put the costs far outweigh the
benefits this is because Germany offers
the player nothing no unique ideas no
unique missions and only 25 prestige
there is good news though and the
upcoming emperor 1.30 update Germany
will have an entirely new and redesigned
mission tree and will probably contain
new national ideas but the missions will
be locked behind the purchase of the DLC
until then you're far better off forming
Prussia who has insanely powerful ideas
and mechanics or staying within the
Empire to revoke the privilege eeeh and
activate the power of the
a swarm at the very least achievement
minded players can obtain the early
Reich achievement by uniting Germany
though staying as your starting nation
is almost always better unless if you're
desperate for regional claims and 25
prestige it's time to bless the rains
down in Africa up next on our list of
shameful States is the SUNY shikdum of
Sokoto at number five if you've never
heard of this multi-cultured state of
Sharia disposition you're not alone they
featured at the top of the list of the
top ten rarest EU for nations and
they're all so bad really really bad to
form Sokoto
you must own in core the province of
kobir as a non Muslim religion or on
pious Muslim leader and wait for an
event to fire after 1770 which invites
Boozman the advisor to your court with
the mean time to happen of 13 years if
this event actually fires which may
never happen you'll have another event
where you are present to the choice to
lose a massive amount of stability and
form the Sokoto Caliphate disregarding
the nish requisites to form the country
Sokoto is saddled with poor and
undeveloped land negligible trade
resources and national ideas that are
inferior to every other religious nation
like Najd to make matters worse a
successful Sokoto campaign relies on
sheer luck as the chances of you being
able to play them for more than 10 or so
years before the end date of 1821
approaches is uncredible Yun likely if
you're looking for achievements there's
more bad news
Sokoto doesn't have any but you can play
the more interesting nations of Mali
Dahomey or Songhai if your ghana play in
west africa at the center of our list is
the Central Asian Silk Road state of
bukhara at number four while the use
becca stan of today is known for a
thriving economy uncorrupted government
and ecologically sound environmental
practices the use bag state of Bukhara
and game is nothing short of awful
horrible by the us-backed tribe once
they adopt feudalism and control the
titular province bukhara transforms your
nation from a formidable horde to an
overextended and pathetic sultanate it
is no secret that the horde government
form is the best in the game allowing
you to pillage provinces for infinite
power giving you access to unlimited
Casas bellies that let you to Clare war
on everyone around you and supercharging
your Army's allowing far more cavalry
into your regiments forming bukhara rids
you of all the advantages hordes bring
the table and offers you practically
nothing outside of some free claims and
a new map color in fact bukhara is so
terrible that your armies will suffer
huge debuffs to their unit pips and
combat effectiveness rendering them
worthless against the hordes that border
you in one-to-one engagements I'd
strongly suggest staying as a horde and
forming the yuan or Mongolian Empire the
former of which will unlock the back and
control achievement for iron men players
it is unusual for players to willingly
lose territory and intentionally destroy
their nation but that is exactly what
you have to do to form Iceland at number
3 on our list form a bull by Norway in
the 1444 starting date the bizarre
nation of Bjork requires you to first
Eclair independence as Norway and then
to sell-off giveaway and let your
continental holdings in Europe be
conquered before you can reform into
Iceland this is actually more difficult
than you'd imagine as the EU for AI
often refuses offers of land even when
they desire them as provinces of
interest of course you can always
release Iceland as a vassal and play
them this way but then you're stuck with
the dreaded generic ideas at the right
hand corner of your screen no matter
what path you choose Iceland is a to
province island with dirt-poor 3
development provinces no unique culture
no missions no events an economy that
cannot support their forests limit of 3
basically no hope whatsoever in fact an
Iceland player cannot leave the island
until well into the mid game as your
coring and colonial range is limited and
you're unable to fabricate any claims
since you neighbor nothing but whales
and rotting shark meat there are no
achievements for this nation but at
least you have Hakka and aya Fiat Laguna
that volcano that screwed over European
travel a few years ago nearing the top
of our list at number two of our mobile
nations is the Holy Roman Empire I will
spare you the contrived Voltaire quote
as forming the HRE actually does elevate
your nation to Empire status but this is
the only positive thing about this
or a blob of mediocrity to begin with
forming the Holy Roman Empire requires
the player to pass all reforms in the
HRE necessitating a hefty time
investment unless a few console command
like I'm doing right now to make matters
worse passing the final reform and
forming this nation integrates all of
your previous HRE vassals entirely
eliminating the insane swarming power
you receive from revoking the privilege
iya functionally speaking this
significantly lowers the amount of
troops the HRE can mobilize and you be
lucky to be able to raise a military
force half the size of your previous
subjects warm unusual for a nation this
size the HRE also doesn't contain unique
ideas missions or events though this
might change in the upcoming Emperor
patch and expansion if you must form the
Imperial tag for the Kaiser achievement
I highly recommend waiting until after
you conquer the world using your vassals
or finish your campaign as the HRE is an
end game tag and thus you will not be
able to swap or form your way out of it
much like a disease you should never
settle for a gray skin and if you test
positive you should self isolate and
consult with a backup save immediately
nestled at the northern periphery of our
world and at the top of our list is
Scandinavia by far the worst for mole
nation in EU four it is poetic in an
ironic sort of sense that this nation is
so terrible given that the majority of
developers are from Sweden and Paradox
Interactive is based out of Stockholm
for a ball by any of the four
scandinavian powers of Denmark Norway
Sweden or Iceland Scandinavia requires
an admin tech of 20 and cores and all
the capitals of the region to establish
by decision I'd strongly advise you not
to press this button though once clicked
it strips your nation of all previous
unique events unique modifiers and
unique missions available to you to
really kick you while you're down it
also replaces your flag with a cross
composed of urine yellow and hemorrhoid
red a truly Nordic assortment of colors
much like IKEA Scandinavia presents
itself as a budget product that you'll
have to assemble yourself and also like
IKEA the end result might end up
crippling you or outright killing you
and your kin
with any luck this unfortunate formable
might be reworked in the upcoming
Emperor update so this ranking is
subject to change if you've made it this
far into the video I'd like to extend a
warm thanks for your support in boosting
the algorithm if you have any future
ideas for top ten videos for EU 4c k2 or
any other strategy game please let me
know in the comments below before typing
those comments though be sure to watch
those gnarly digits dangling from your
side body appendages the chroma
slickness is upon us so stay inside
avoid outside contact and be sure to
subscribe to the channel to stay safe
my university is canceled and I have a
lot more free time so expect to see at
least one new video per week and
potentially more as my resident country
of France is under total lockdown time
to roll the credits
[Music]